# Change Log

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](http://keepachangelog.com/)
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/).

### Version 1.5 (Pitchfork People)

This minor release corresponds with the launch of [Pitchfork People](https://github.com/asuengineering/pitchfork-people) and represents the relocation of blocks and processes related to building directory pages within the Pitchfork system.

- REMOVED: The following blocks were moved to the Pitchfork People plugin.
  - `acf/profiles`
  - `acf/profile-manual`

Neither of the above blocks were changed other than the relocation to a different plugin. If you have page content that features these blocks, simply activate the Pitchfork People plugin in your environment to restore the page to its original form.

### Version 1.4.1 (Bug Fixes)

A regression of the ACF hero blocks prevented the image overlay from appearing within `acf/hero` or `acf/hero-video`. The cause was a downstream effect of the update to Pitchfork v1.9 which updated the Bootstrap 4 library from the Unity project.

- FIX: Add a missing div for hero blocks in `acf/hero` or `acf/hero-video`.

Single links within the sidebar element `(.sidebar>.nav-link-container)` contain no native background color which causes display issues when the background of the page was anything except white.

- FIX: Added temporary CSS rule to force sidebar single links to be `background-color: white;`

### Version 1.4

- ADD: Created two new blocks called `acf/profiles` and `acf/profile-manual` to aid with the creation of directory pages in Pitchfork.
- CHANGE: Recategorized all blocks in this plugin into their own category in the block inserter.
- FIX: Removed debugging code in several places. Applied code linting standards.

**Documentation:**

- ADD: https://wordpress.asu.edu/pitchfork/docs/profiles-block/
- ADD: https://wordpress.asu.edu/pitchfork/docs/profile-block-manual/
- ADD: https://wordpress.asu.edu/pitchfork/docs/block-patterns/

### Version 1.3

This release contains several bigger refactoring efforts for performance and best practices.

- CHANGE: Refactored all blocks to use `block.json`, which is now [the recommended method](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/acf-blocks-with-block-json/) for doing so as of ACF 6.0.
- ADD: Several blocks now also take advantage of a dedicated ACF field for picking an icon from the Font Awesome library. This field is provided by the [ACF Font Awesome Field plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/advanced-custom-fields-font-awesome/) which is now bundled with the theme as a recommended plugin for the system.
- FIX: Blocks now use WP styling engine to generate inline style declatations for margin/padding/colors.

Additional small adjustments to individual blocks include:

`acf/accordion`

- FIX: Address block crash related to FA icon insertion/removal from block.
- CHANGE: Implemented Font Awesome icon field for a better UX.
- ADD: Unique block ID generated by dedicated field for the purpose. Removes dependency on block id generated by ACF.

`acf/alert`

- FIX: Removal of icon caused block rendering error in block editor. The icon is now not optional for this block. Consistent with Unity design component.

`acf/banner`

- ADD: Added option for user to select an optional icon for the banner.

`acf/content-media-overlap`

- CHANGE: Non-functional control for media size/zoom was removed. No matching option in Unity.

`acf/uds-sidebar`

- FIX: Nav walker class for items in a sub-menu produced an incorrect wrapper `<ul>` element. Removed unneeded wrapper.
- CHANGE: Relocated nav walker class to main plugin file.

`acf/subtitle block`

- FIX: No longer produces markup of any kind if the block is unused.

### Version 1.2

- NEW: Initial deployment of the `acf/hero-video` block.
- IMPROVE: Options within the `acf/accordion` block failed when the block was nested within other blocks. Fixed so that the block can exist anyplace on the page.
- FIX: Adjusted SASS for `acf/background-section` to add padding/margin on a mobile device. Content no longer stretches from edge to edge.
- FIX: `.gitignore` excluded a required file fror the acf/breadcrumb block without a prior `composer install`. The plugin will now safely work "out of the box" again without further install steps.

### Version 1.1

- Added `content-media-overlap` block to the party.
- Added additional contributors to this README from ASU Knowledge Enterprise.

### Version 1.0

- Initial deployment of the plugin. v1.0.
- Includes working versions of the following blocks:
  - `accordion` / `card-foldable`
  - `alert` and `banner` for eassy inclusion on a page. Works as repeatable blocks within the block editor.
  - `background-section` for easy inclusion of the background patterns from the unity design kit.
  - `blockquote` which also includes vertical styles corresponding to the "testimonial" element from the design kit.
  - `breadcrumb` via Hybrid Brreadcrumbs
  - `card` which can produce UDS cards of arbitrary content in any of the approved formats.
  - `grid-links`
  - `hero` version 2.0 from the design kit.
  - `sidebar`
  - `subtitle` for use within the hero.
