# Pitchfork Blocks

A plugin for use with the [Pitchfork theme](https://github.com/asuengineering/pitchfork) for WordPress.

This plugin adds blocks and block patterns for the block editor consistent with the ASU Unity Design system for web standards.

Requires at least: WP 6.0
Tested up to: 6.0
Requires PHP: 7.3
Stable tag: 1.0
License: GPLv2 or later
License URI: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html

**Contributors**

- Steve Ryan (ASU Engineering)
- Zainab Alsidiki, Justin Holloway, Walt McConnell, Nathan Rollins, Cindy Zisner (ASU Knowledge Enterprise)

## Usage Requirements

- Download the lastest release from Github.
- Install in the normal WP location for plugins which is typically `/wp-content/plugins`.

**Recommended / Required Additional Plugins**

This plugin contains blocks that are constructed with the use of Advanced Custom Fields Pro.
- The ACF Pro plugin is also required by the Pitchfork theme.
- The theme contains a script which will prompt the user to install this plugin upon theme activation.
- ASU Engineering provides a licensed copy of this plugin within its standard distribution of WordPress on the Pantheon hosting platform.

Plugin updates can optionally be managed from the admin dashboard through the use of [Git Updater](https://git-updater.com/).


## Includes

This plugin leverages the following libraries for functionality delivered within certain blocks.

- This plugin loads a copy of the SASS files from the [Bootstrap 4 library](https://github.com/ASU/asu-unity-stack/tree/dev/packages/bootstrap4-theme) within the ASU Unity design kit. It includes only the design tokens for easier SASS references and expects that the theme will load the remainder of the required BS4 files.

- The breadcrumb block is an ACF wrapper for the [Hybrid Breadcrumbs](https://github.com/themehybrid/hybrid-breadcrumbs) composer-based assset for including breadcrumbs.

- The sidebar block makes use of a custom ACF field group for menu selection which can be found within the [ASU Engineering's GitHub organization](https://github.com/asuengineering/ACF-Menu-Select).

- Several blocks now also take advantage of a dedicated ACF field for picking an icon from the Font Awesome library. This field is provided by the [ACF Font Awesome Field plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/advanced-custom-fields-font-awesome/) which is now a recommended plugin for the Pitchfork theme.

## Development

- Run `npm install` and `composer install` prior to local development.
- SASS and JS compile & watch tasks are triggered via WP-Gulp and `npm start` from the project root.

<hr>

## Release Notes

### Version 1.4

- ADD: Created two new blocks called `acf/profiles` and `acf/profile-manual` to aid with the creation of directory pages in Pitchfork. Both blocks are documented at [WordPress @ ASU](https://wordpress.asu.edu/pitchfork/docs/).
- CHANGE: Recategorized all blocks in this plugin into their own category in the block inserter.
- FIX: Removed debugging code in several places. Applied code linting standards.

### Version 1.3
This release contains several bigger refactoring efforts for performance and best practices.
- CHANGE:  Refactored all blocks to use `block.json`, which is now [the recommended method](https://www.advancedcustomfields.com/resources/acf-blocks-with-block-json/) for doing so as of ACF 6.0.
- ADD: Several blocks now also take advantage of a dedicated ACF field for picking an icon from the Font Awesome library. This field is provided by the [ACF Font Awesome Field plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/advanced-custom-fields-font-awesome/) which is now bundled with the theme as a recommended plugin for the system.
- FIX: Blocks now use WP styling engine to generate inline style declatations for margin/padding/colors.

Additional small adjustments to individual blocks include:

`acf/accordion`
- FIX: Address block crash related to FA icon insertion/removal from block.
- CHANGE: Implemented Font Awesome icon field for a better UX.
- ADD: Unique block ID generated by dedicated field for the purpose. Removes dependency on block id generated by ACF.

`acf/alert`
- FIX: Removal of icon caused block rendering error in block editor. The icon is now not optional for this block. Consistent with Unity design component.

`acf/banner`
- ADD: Added option for user to select an optional icon for the banner.

`acf/content-media-overlap`
- CHANGE: Non-functional control for media size/zoom was removed. No matching option in Unity.

`acf/uds-sidebar`
- FIX: Nav walker class for items in a sub-menu produced an incorrect wrapper `<ul>` element. Removed unneeded wrapper.
- CHANGE: Relocated nav walker class to main plugin file.

`acf/subtitle block`
- FIX: No longer produces markup of any kind if the block is unused.

### Version 1.2
- NEW: Initial deployment of the `acf/hero-video` block.
- IMPROVE: Options within the `acf/accordion` block failed when the block was nested within other blocks. Fixed so that the block can exist anyplace on the page.
- FIX: Adjusted SASS for `acf/background-section` to add padding/margin on a mobile device. Content no longer stretches from edge to edge.
- FIX: `.gitignore` excluded a required file fror the acf/breadcrumb block without a prior `composer install`. The plugin will now safely work "out of the box" again without further install steps.

### Version 1.1

- Added `content-media-overlap` block to the party.
- Added additional contributors to this README from ASU Knowledge Enterprise.

### Version 1.0

- Initial deployment of the plugin. v1.0.
- Includes working versions of the following blocks:
  - `accordion` / `card-foldable`
  - `alert` and `banner` for eassy inclusion on a page. Works as repeatable blocks within the block editor.
  - `background-section` for easy inclusion of the background patterns from the unity design kit.
  - `blockquote` which also includes vertical styles corresponding to the "testimonial" element from the design kit.
  - `breadcrumb` via Hybrid Brreadcrumbs
  - `card` which can produce UDS cards of arbitrary content in any of the approved formats.
  - `grid-links`
  - `hero` version 2.0 from the design kit.
  - `sidebar`
  - `subtitle` for use within the hero.
